"Credit Suisse's research team put out a note to clients Friday with its most differentiated, highest conviction stock recommendations.    "This report identifies companies where our analysts stand apart from the consensus view, companies where our analysis reveals opportunities that the market has not yet priced in," they wrote. "We screened our current US coverage universe to identify companies where our analysts' views diverged from that of the Street, focusing on rating, earnings projections as well as target price. To further strengthen the list of stocks, we worked closely with the research analysts to select stories in which our conviction level is high."    Smart fund managers like to avoid over-owned consensus stock ideas, because when sentiment shifts there may be more downside risk as investors flee for the exits at once. Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Savita Subramanian has said it's more difficult for crowded stocks to move higher since everyone is already in the trade.Here are the details on Credit Suisse's six outperform-rated "contrarian" stock picks and their 12-month price forecasts."
"Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at The Lindsey Group, said the Federal Reserve and other central banks have reached their "logistical" and "political" limit, which will have broad implications for financial markets for years to come. His comments came in an exclusive conversation with Mike Santoli on the economy, rates and stocks for CNBC PRO subscribers.  "I'm very confident in saying that the bond yields in mid-July we may never see again ... that this 35-year bond bull market [is over]," he said.  Since the yield on the 30-year Treasury reached an all-time low of 2.10 percent in July, the yield has rebounded by 44 basis points, according to data from FactSet.  In this exclusive interview, the analyst also discusses:  Hidden inflation risks.    Market valuations.  How to kick-start the economy.  PRO subscribers can also read the entire transcript of the exclusive interview below"  
"Goldman Sachs told investors to avoid Shake Shack shares, citing the risk of opening too many restaurants in the same geographic area. The firm reiterated its sell rating on the company.    "We have previously highlighted ... declining novelty and therefore excitement around unit opens as a risk to new store productivity, and … cannibalization as a growing risk to traffic trends at SHAK, as the company continues to add density in markets outside of N.Y.," analyst Karen Holthouse wrote in a note to clients Wednesday. "We look at the Washington, D.C., market … as a case study that largely confirmed both of these concerns."