 SBI’s gross non-performing assets (NPAs) rose marginally to Rs 1.08 lakh crore (7.23 percent of total loans) at the end of the December quarter from Rs 1.06 lakh crore in the September quarter. For the banking sector overall, the bad loans stood at over Rs 7 lakh crore. Pace of NPA formation will hinge on economic recovery, says SBI chief  Beena Parmar  The pace of formation of bad loans in the banking system will largely depend on how the economy fares, Arundhati Bhattacharya, Chairman, State Bank of India told Moneycontrol. Growth in bad loans has eased marginally in the last couple of quarters, but analysts say that also it has to do with do with the drop in growth of loans.  “Anything that happens is not outside of the economy,” said Bhattacharya.  “Even today, your capital formation and investments are at very low levels. So, those things need to go up, your capacity utilisations need to go up,” she said.  India’s economy is estimated to grow at 7.1 percent in the year through March, the slowest pace in three years.  SBI’s gross non-performing assets (NPAs) rose marginally to Rs 1.08 lakh crore (7.23 percent of total loans) at the end of the December quarter from Rs 1.06 lakh crore in the September quarter. For the banking sector overall, the bad loans stood at over Rs 7 lakh crore.  Infographic (7)  Infographic (8)  Further, the credit growth for the banking sector has slipped below 5 percent to a multi-year low of 4.8 percent as on February 17, down sharply from 11.2 percent a year ago. This suggests banks have hardly been giving loans during that period.  According to media reports, small and mid-sized enterprises have been hit hard by demonetisation and so recovery of loans could be an issue now that the forbearance period granted by the RBI is over.  “Forbearance of this kind is always a bad idea…For two months if you (SMEs) have not made money, third month where will you make all of the three instalments money? So, obviously there is a little more stress there,” she added.  Infographic (9)  During the demonetisation period, this portfolio accounted for Rs 2,000 crore of SBI’s total book.  While SBI chief is optimistic on the demand front at the rural level, she said that the economy can move forward only if that demand gets the needed supply. “The good thing is in India, the demand exists. There is demand because of the sheer pressure of demography…Also, we are more or less a consumption economy. We are not only a saving economy, unlike some of our larger neighbours. So demand is there, but we have to nurture the demand, we have to deliver to that demand, only then things will start moving.” tags #Arundhati Bhattacharya #bad loans #Business #Companies #Economy #NPA #State Bank of India Related news New York: Car slams into Times Square pedestrians, killing one, injuring others Business New York: Car slams into Times Square pedestrians, killing one, injuring others May 18, 2017 10:45 PM Laurus Labs posts Rs 74 crore net profit in Q4 Business Laurus Labs posts Rs 74 crore net profit in Q4 May 18, 2017 10:29 PM Urban Reality: Is India's solar story really shining? Business Urban Reality: Is India's solar story really shining? May 18, 2017 10:18 PM Rashid Khan: The unlikely star among the Sunrisers Business Rashid Khan: The unlikely star among the Sunrisers May 18, 2017 10:17 PM Bank of Baroda posts profit at Rs 155 cr; expects new NPAs to reduce to Rs 3,000 cr Business Bank of Baroda posts profit at Rs 155 cr; expects new NPAs to reduce to Rs 3,000 cr May 18, 2017 10:14 PM Tamil Nadu to embrace RERA: Rules due for release in couple of weeks Business Tamil Nadu to embrace RERA: Rules due for release in couple of weeks May 18, 2017 10:03 PM Three years of Modi government: Startup India report card Business Three years of Modi government: Startup India report card May 18, 2017 09:57 PM Karti leaves for London; father PC says he will back soon Business Karti leaves for London; father PC says he will back soon May 18, 2017 09:53 PM ICJ order serious indictment of Pak's judicial system: Jaitley Business ICJ order serious indictment of Pak's judicial system: Jaitley May 18, 2017 09:47 PM News      Most Popular     Top News      Fund managers increased their holding in these 20 blue-chip companies in April     Fund managers increased their holding in these 20 blue-chip companies in April     Top 10 stocks which rose up to 100% during Nifty50 journey from 9000-9500     Top 10 stocks which rose up to 100% during Nifty50 journey from 9000-9500     Take Notice! Top 30 cos where promoters increased pledged holdings in March quarter     Take Notice! Top 30 cos where promoters increased pledged holdings in March quarter     HUL’s Q4 beats Street as profit rises 6% to Rs 1,183 cr, EBITDA up 12% at Rs 1,651 cr     HUL’s Q4 beats Street as profit rises 6% to Rs 1,183 cr, EBITDA up 12% at Rs 1,651 cr  see more See More Video of the day Not 30%, but 12-15% returns still possible from mutual funds over next 5 years: Sundaram MF  Not 30%, but 12-15% returns still possible from mutual funds over next 5 years: Sundaram MF Speaking to CNBC-TV18, SBI Managing Director Rajnish Kumar said the lender was willing to take a haircut of 40 percent on outstanding tractor loans as of September 30, 2016. The country's largest lender, State Bank of India, has announced a one-time settlement (OTS) scheme worth Rs 6,000 crore for tractor loans.  Speaking to CNBC-TV18, SBI Managing Director Rajnish Kumar said the lender was willing to take a haircut of 40 percent on outstanding tractor loans as of September 30, 2016.  He said accounts in the category of doubtful or loss as of September 30 for loans disbursed before September 2011 will be eligible. Proposals submitted till March 31 this year will be considered.  Kumar said a circular in this regard was issued to branches in early February and that the power of the loan waiver will lie in the hands of the branch manager.  On Prime Minister Narendra Modi's promise of a loan waiver to UP farmers, Kumar said there had been no talks with the central or state governments in this regard so far. He said SBI's agricultural lending book in UP is worth Rs 12,000 crore.  Kumar said SBI adopts the OTS route from time-to-time to maximise recovery as it often produces good and quick results, and efforts were underway to make agricultural lending a viable business model. He said SBI had announced OTS schemes for SME and education loans earlier in the year.  Below is the verbatim transcript of Rajnish Kumar's interview to Latha Venkatesh, Surabhi Upadhyay & Prashant Nair:  Latha: Is there anything new that has been announced in terms of one time settlement (OTS) for agricultural loans?  A: We have announced OTS for tractor loan and time to time we do go through this route whether it is agriculture or small and medium enterprises (SME) or education loan, where we want to maximise our recovery and we feel that if we offer an OTS, it may give good quick results and they are targeted about a certain category of accounts. So that\'s the only thing we have done and as I said we had an OTS even for SME and education loans.  However, when we announce such a scheme because it is schematic - that is why the delegation of power is such that it can be settled even at our branch manager level, it is non-discretionary in nature and it is board approved, so in terms of convenience, in terms of a sanction, in terms of clarity, it is all parameter driven and these schemes are non-discretionary.  Latha: Can you give us some more details of tractor loan. When it was announced and what are the details of this one time settlement for tractor loan?  A: The accounts which are in the category of doubtful or loss asset as on September 30, 2016 and these are the loans which were disbursed before September 30, 2011. We are saying that other agri loans like Kisan Credit Card (KCC) and other term loans of the same tractor and farm loan account borrowers may also be covered with the same concession. So we are ready to take a haircut of 40 percent on the outstanding balance as on September 30, 2016. We issued the circular on February 2, 2017 to our branches, internally.  Latha: The other two - SME and education were also around February 2017?  A: The SME was sometime in December and there was a cut-off date and then we said that people can apply up to March 20 through that. Education loan was earlier than that.  Latha: The tractor loan scheme runs out on March 31?  A: This scheme - all the proposals which are received for settlement as per the scheme up to March 31, 2017, they all will be considered. So it is a limited window we have opened.  Latha: Is there anything fresh that you are planning to consider especially with respect to farm loans?  A: Nothing is special but farm loans or agriculture lending - they are doing quite a couple of things to make it a viable business model and we have a programme which we initiated about a year ago, which is called farm to fore, it's basically from produce to dining table under a tie-up with corporate. So that programme is going on.  Latha: My question was more related to the events of the past few days. We have seen an overwhelming victory for the BJP and during campaigning, several parties including the BJP had promised loan waivers. Is anything in the works in terms of extremely distressed loans?  A: We haven\'t heard anything from the government of those states. So when they announce or formulate a scheme then we will react to that at that time but our position in regard to loan waivers in any case from time to time we have been making our stance clear to Reserve Bank of India and the government.  Latha: Which is?  A: Let it first be announced and then we will react.  Surabhi: Would you have the breakup of the advances that you have under farm loans in the state of Uttar Pradesh?  A: I do not have it right now but my total portfolio of agriculture lending in the country is Rs 125,000. I don\'t have the state wise breakup but it won\'t be less than Rs 10,000-12,000 crore for sure.  Prashant: What is the value of these loans we are talking about, which fall in the doubtful category and which may be eligible especially tractor?  A: It will be about Rs 6,000 crore for tractor.  Prashant: On which you are ready to take 40 percent haircut you said?  A: As I said these were the loans granted before 2011. They all are in doubtful and loss category.  Prashant: What about SME?  A: SME was a different scheme.  Prashant: What was the scheme and what is the value there?  A: The haircut was 20 percent there.  Prashant: What is the value of those doubtful loans for SME overall?  A: I do not remember the number for SME overall but that was the scheme applicable for loans up to Rs 25 crore. So when we come out with this type of OTS the thinking is that through legal means or through other means we are finding it difficult to recover these loans and OTS sometimes gives us a better recovery and the purpose of formulating the scheme as I said the key element is non-discretionary, it is parameter driven, it\'s a tick box approach. If our branch manager would tick all the tick boxes then at his level he can approve the scheme, so the delegation of power is right up to the BM level.  Surabhi: To understand - historically what the precedence has been, your exposure for instance the state of UP, Rs 10,000-12,000 crore. Is the haircut on some of these loans which have already gone bad, would it be as much as 40 percent? Is it really a haircut or what do you expect the state or the central government to make good. How does it work?  A: In all the past loan waivers which happened either under the central government scheme or we saw in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. So from the bank's perspective you get the money and yous quality of portfolio improves, but what it does is in our view it vitiates the repayment culture - that is the negative aspect or which from the bank's perspective, if the government pays you and your recovery improves temporarily for that particular loan, so you are not worse-off but what it does is it gives hope to people that every time when there will be election, there will be a loan waiver and that is something which needs to be consider by all while announcing loan waiver but per se we are not against helping the poor people or the poor farmers, but the loan waiver is the negative dimension which we raised at the time of Andhra and Telangana elections also. We presented to RBI but ultimately it's a government decision.  Latha: So no at the moment loan waiver discussions with any government or the central government?  A: Not at all.In an exclusive chat with Moneycontrol, SBI Chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya said resolution of non-performing assets (NPAs) and the merger of five associate banks with itself are the key near term challenges for the bank. The country’s largest lender, State Bank of India has called for an independent agency and transparent process to help banks offload bad loans at a practical price.In an exclusive interaction with Moneycontrol, SBI Chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya said resolution of non-performing assets (NPAs) and the merger of five associate banks with itself are the key near-term challenges for the bank.  On non-performing assets, she said, “The main thing is that when we are looking at a very sustainable solution, we need to ensure that the pricing at which we put the new piece is sustainable. So, to that extent, there will be quite a lot of write-downs both on the equity and the debt front.”  State-owned banks in general have been grappling with a pile of bad loans, and many solutions have been proposed to help the banks get the dud assets off their books. But the price at which the assets should be,a nd more importantly, can be offloaded, has proved to be a tricky issue.  According to Bhattacharya, one of the key challenges was that the write downs - the depreciation in value of the asset - had to be done in a way which gave comfort that it was done for the right reasons and up to the right amount so as to not undervalue or overvalue the asset.  “This is very difficult to determine. Therefore, it is good to have a transparent process to run and then get some comfort from another agency that what you are doing is the best under the circumstances…If those sort of arrangements are made with little more relaxation given to the agencies who will be working on these things to come up with the right kind of solutions, I think it is possible that we can do it,” she said.  Even as the pace of growth in bad loans for SBI slowed marginally, its gross bad loans are still at over Rs 1.08 lakh crore, which is 7.23 percent of its total loans. Bhattacharya feels that though demand exists in the rural economy, further accretion of bad loans would depend on how the economy fares.  Even though she agrees in principle with RBI Deputy Governor Viral Acharya’s suggestions to set up a private and quasi-government bad bank, this could take a long time while resolving bad loan issue needs to be quick in-house resolutions by banks and give it to the private firms to turn the assets healthy.  SBI, which is in the process of merging five of its subsidiary banks from April 1, will have to spend a lot of energy and time in fixing its administrative setups, rationalising all its branches, merging the six treasuries and IT into one, relocating the roles of its employees and still providing a seamless experience for its customers.  She denied that bank would be doing rationalising of employees but said that the incoming staff of about 70,000 from the associates would require adequate training.Optimistic on the digital push, Bhattacharya highlighted Optimistic on the digital push, Bhattacharya highlighted that simple and convenient offerings like Bharat QR and mobile apps like UPI and BHIM will attract more people into making cashless transactions.